Subject: MWC 2013: Registration Now Open!
From: "John Hoffman, GSMA Mobile World Congress" <emailreplies@gsm.org>
Date: 11/13/2012 08:02 AM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

View on Mobile Phone | View as Web Page

 MWC13 reg open Header
	

regopenbartab

Registration is now open for GSMA Mobile World Congress 2013! We have several great pass options including:

    EVP pass includes the exhibition and featured programs such as App Planet, mPowered Brands and the Forum Series
    Silver pass gets you everything from the EVP pass, plus the incredible conference
    Gold pass adds on the conference lunch, access to the exclusive VIP Networking Lounge and other perks
    Platinum pass gets you the ultimate networking experience and access to industry leaders

Register Now Button

regopenbartab2
The GSMA has just released a new list of industry CEOs to join the Mobile World Congress keynote programme:  

    Randall Stephenson, Chairman, President and CEO, AT&T
    Hans Vestberg, President and CEO, Ericsson
    Paul Jacobs, Chairman and CEO, Qualcomm
    Talmon Marco, Founder and CEO, Viber Media

The keynote programme will feature insightful and thought-provoking sessions such as “Mobile Operator Strategies”, “The Future of Communications”, “Vertical Disruption” and “Mobile in Media”. View the full list of keynotes and speakers.

Click below to see a video of Paul Jacobs from last year’s MWC conference:

MWL Video Clip

regopenbartab3
gmalogoShowcase your brand and gain global exposure for your company by submitting your entry for the GSMA Global Mobile Awards. Categories for this year’s awards include Apps of the Year, Best Mobile Services, Best Mobile Technology, Best Mobile Handsets & Devices and many more. These awards are currently open for online entry but will close on Friday, 30 November! ENTER NOW!

regopenbartab4
mPB2013mPowered Brands, in its second year at MWC, serves the marketing and advertising community by offering exhibition, theatre programmes and mobile education training. In addition, mPowered Brands also offers guided tours to help accelerate marketers’ knowledge and utilisation of mobile as a marketing and service delivery medium. In its inaugural year 2012, mPowered Brands had more than 1,670 people attending 11 Theatre Programmes. Learn more.

regopenbartab5
mymwcMy MWC, the exclusive social networking tool for MWC attendees, is set to launch early next week. The tool has been completely redesigned and will enable more efficient networking before, during and after the event. Improvements include a much better mobile app version and better business deal matchmaking. Register for MWC today so you can use My MWC as soon as it launches.

para3MWC
hotelpic copyOur official accommodation provider, BBP, is offering incredible hotel deals including:
- Hesperia Fira Suites: 5 Star apartment, located only 5 min by taxi to the Fira Gran Via. From 280€ per night
- Expo Hotel: 3 star-hotel, located less than 10 min walk to Plaza España. From 180€ per night 
- Front Air Congress: 3 star-hotel, located at Sant Boi de Llobregat. From 190€ per night

See more options on the BBP website and book your room today.
	

 Register Now Button

 followusMWC
BBP sales banner

    Customerquote2
    flight deal
 MWLbanner
    MAE banner20131
    mwl highlight video2
	

footermwc

Mobile World Congress 2013 | The New Mobile Horizon
25 – 28 February 2013 | Fira Gran Via, Barcelona, Spain | www.mobileworldcongress.com

Mobile Asia Expo 2013 | 26-28 June 2013 | New International Expo Centre, Shanghai, China | www.mobileasiaexpo.com

Unsubscribe from GSMA Events & Announcements Emails | Manage your Email Account | Privacy policy

To unsubscribe from ALL GSMA email communications, visit the Email Preference Centre

©2012 GSMA Limited
(GSMA Ltd. is a subsidiary company of GSM Association)
1000 Abernathy Road, Suite 450, Atlanta, GA 30328 USA
