Subject: 5 Apr 2013 | Facebook confirms Home launch
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 04/05/2013 08:13 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

Sonus
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
5 APRIL 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS

facebook-home
Facebook confirms Home launch

 

 

 

Facebook unveiled its anticipated Home extension for Android, which the social networking giant described as a “new way to turn your Android phone into a great, living social phone”.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacer 	

new-SonusGot SIP? Want SIP? Session Border Controllers secure, translate, police, and control your SIP communications. Learn more with a free copy of Session Border Controllers for Dummies. http://info.sonus.net/dummies-mwl

	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long
Samsung set for strong Q1 profit

Handset number one Samsung is set to report a better than expected profit for the first quarter of 2013, which observers have attributed to the breadth of its smartphone portfolio across price points.

	
	
LATEST

Telecom Italia to discuss M&A options – report
Telecom Italia’s board plans to discuss how to strengthen the operator’s mobile business at a meeting next week, including the possibility of mergers and acquisitions, according to Bloomberg.



Tele2 completes Russian deal with VTB
Despite a flurry of improved counter bids, Tele2 has completed the sale of its Russian business to VTB on the terms it agreed with the Russian state bank last week.



Report: Vodafone in talks to ramp up fixed-mobile services in Germany
Vodafone is reportedly in discussions with Deutsche Telekom to enable the operator to complement its mobile service in Germany with high-speed broadband and TV services.

BLOG

ken blog

Quad-play appetites growing in Europe
The quad-play market is hotting up in Europe, although it is far from a level playing field.

	

VIDEO

randall

MWC13 Keynote: AT&T
Randall Stephenson, AT&T’s chief executive, claimed the mobile industry was starting a new era.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

 ANALYSIS

us-flag1-620x367

US consumers increasing mobile spend through multiple device ownership
According to Wireless Intelligence research, the USA is one of the few countries worldwide where consumers are increasing their spend on mobile.

 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
