Subject: 20 Mar 2013 | Outgoing ARM CEO: “We save industry huge amounts in R&D costs”
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/20/2013 09:39 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

MWLTV_ad_PostMWC_550x90_V2
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
20 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS

arm-ceo-warren-east
Outgoing ARM CEO: “We save industry huge amounts in R&D costs”

VIDEO INTERVIEW: Outgoing chief executive Warren East has argued that ARM’s licensed chip designs have slashed the mobile industry’s R&D bill.

 btn-viewvideo-blue

divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacer 	

newtekelec

The ThinkingNetworks™ Revolution


Transform into a digital lifestyle provider with the 4 phases of ThinkingNetworks. Read Tekelec's whitepaper to learn more.
	spacer
spacer

iPhone shrinks profits at China Telecom

iPhone expenses help explain the 9.5 per cent drop in full-year net profits at China Telecom, the country’s third-largest mobile operator.

 

divider-dotted-long

Samsung countersues Ericsson over patent claims

Samsung has countersued Ericsson and asked that the lawsuit filed against it by the Swedish infrastructure vendor is thrown out by the US Federal Court Texas due to the claims being invalid, reports Reuters.

	
	
FEATURE VIDEO

Launch of Samsung's Galaxy S4
gallaxys4

Mobile World Live was at the launch of the new Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphone in New York. This video feature highlights the main tech improvements to the company’s new flagship device and includes footage of the event as well as analyst commentary.

btn-viewvideo-blue

Vodafone could take rating hit; not in hurry to sell VZW stake – report
Vodafone has told investors that it’s willing to accept a lower debt rating if it pursues an acquisition, reports Bloomberg, a move financial analysts believe suggests it is under no pressure to sell its stake in Verizon Wireless.

Bharti chairman is summoned to appear in court
Sunil Mittal, the chairman of Bharti Airtel, India’s largest mobile operator, has been ordered to appear in a court case about corruption in the allocation of bandwidth dating back to 2002.

VIDEO

viber

MWC13 Keynote: Viber CEO
Viber's Talmon Marco used his keynote address at this year’s GSMA Mobile World Congress to claim that consumers want innovation over interoperability. The founder of the OTT messaging player said the company has quickly gained 170 million users to its free IP instant messaging service

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

VIDEO

colao

MWC13 Keynote: Vodafone CEO
Vittorio Colao reveals Vodafone’s strategy to take on ‘free’ services from OTT players. He also touches on the issue of spectrum allocation, other regulatory concerns, and the operator’s approach to mobile money.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

BLOG

ken blog

Time to talk up HD Voice
There are signs that high-definition voice, at long last, is gaining momentum. And Ken Wieland believes that the old chicken-and-egg stumbling block about which should come first – network or devices – looks to be coming down.

 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
