Subject: 2 Apr 2013 | Verizon, AT&T weigh joint Vodafone bid – report
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 04/02/2013 08:22 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

MWLTV_ad_PostMWC_550x90_V2
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
2 APRIL 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS
Verizon, AT&T weigh joint Vodafone bid – report

Verizon Communications and AT&T have been studying a possible joint takeover of Vodafone Group, according to the Financial Times’ Alphaville blog.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacer 	

SAP MobileGuide 100x100Mobile Operator Guide 2013.
Strategies and Opportunities.

Succeed in the new digital economy with insights from over 40 industry leaders and innovators. It’s your move. Download now.
	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long

kt-ceo-mwc13KT CEO: Operators must exploit next-gen services


VIDEO INTERVIEW: Suk-Chae Lee, CEO of KT, said operators must change their approach if they are to avoid missing out on opportunities in the mobile broadband era.

	
	
LATEST

Facebook mobile event sparks speculation
Facebook is set to hold an event this week in which it will showcase its “new home on Android”, with speculation pointing to an HTC-made device which features deep integration with the social networking service.



TeliaSonera drops Yoigo sale plan
TeliaSonera has dropped plans to sell Yoigo after failing to attract sufficiently high bids for Spain’s fourth-largest mobile operator.



MTS and VimpelCom woo Tele2 shareholders for Russian deal
MTS and VimpleCom have submitted an open letter to both the chairman and chief executive of Tele2 saying they would jointly offer between $4 billion and $4.25 billion in cash for the Swedish company’s Russian subsidiary.

BLOG

ken blog

Quad-play appetites growing in Europe
The quad-play market is hotting up in Europe, although it is far from a level playing field.

	

VIDEO

Ubuntu ceo

MWC13 Keynote: Ubuntu
Mark Shuttleworth, CEO of Canonical, the company behind the high-profile Ubuntu OS, delivers his keynote presentation at the 2013 Mobile World Congress.

 

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

VIDEO

franco

MWC13 Keynote: Telecom Italia
GSMA & Telecom Italia chairman Franco Bernabe used his opening keynote presentation at Mobile World Congress to state that spectrum allocation and privacy must be high on the agenda as the mobile industry undergoes unprecedented change.

btn-viewvideo-blue 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
