Subject: MWC 2013: New Year, New Event Updates!
From: "John Hoffman, GSMA Mobile World Congress" <emailreplies@gsma.com>
Date: 01/08/2013 08:17 AM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

View on Mobile Phone | View as Web Page

 MWC New Year Updates Header
	

para1MWC13

In addition to a stellar keynote line-up, we are happy to announce the following expert speakers who will share their insight on mobile marketing, network evolution and strategic leadership across the four day conference programme:

    Padmasree Warrior, CT&SO, Cisco
    Olaf Swantee, CEO, EE
    Sifiso Dabengwa, Group President & CEO, MTN
    Peggy Johnson, EVP & President, Global Market Development, Qualcomm
    Mats Granyd, President & CEO, Tele2 Group
    Keith Weed, CMO, Unilever

Padmasree Warrior Sifiso DabengwaPeggy Johnson

See the full agenda online or download the e-brochure now for session descriptions.

para2
firaDid you know that Fira Gran Via, our new venue, has 34% more exhibition space? Or that we will have 49 food outlets for shorter lines and faster service? If not, then you need to learn more about our new home by viewing the New Venue Infographic. Also learn about the setup and logistics of Fira Gran Via by taking our New Venue Orientation now. 

para3MWC
nfcUse a NFC enabled phone to enter MWC, conduct transactions, get discounts and access valuable information. Learn More about the NFC Experience at MWC, check your phone’s compatibility now or view the registration FAQs today.

para4MWC13
mediterranean picNew for 2013, these 8 outdoor gardens will be the place to network, meet clients or take a break at MWC. Each Networking Garden will have a unique theme with specialised decoration, cuisine or entertainment. Open to all MWC attendees, the gardens are sure to become a favourite event feature. More details coming soon.  

para5
mantextingpicThe MWC mobile app is now available! Plan your visit with the official exhibitor list, conference agenda, venue maps and the My MWC social networking tool. Download on iOS or Android or easily access via any internet-enabled smart phone. 

para6MWC
gsma_con_city_rgbWe have expanded the highly popular “Connected House” exhibit to create the “Connected City.” In partnership with mobile operators including AT&T, Deutsche Telekom, KT, Telenor and Vodafone, this feature will showcase a range of mobile connected products and services, providing attendees the opportunity to experience the Connected Life. Find the Connected City at stands 3B2 and 2C2, Hall 3.

para7MWC13
mobilequiz Think you have insight on just how much mobile technology pervades our lives and pop culture? If so take our Mobile Culture Quiz on Facebook now. And also make sure to connect with MWC on Linked In, Twitter and Google+ and Sina Weibo.

MAE banner20131
	

  Register Now Button

  websitebutton
  eBrochureButton
 downloadeventapp  
   mymwc
        banner 150x180 2
   appplanet
 hoteldiscounts
 tourofbarcelona
     flight deal
     Partner Side Banner13
 mwl banner 2
	

footermwc

Mobile World Congress 2013 | The New Mobile Horizon
25 – 28 February 2013 | Fira Gran Via, Barcelona, Spain | www.mobileworldcongress.com

Mobile Asia Expo 2013 | 26-28 June 2013 | New International Expo Centre, Shanghai, China | www.mobileasiaexpo.com

Unsubscribe from GSMA Events & Announcements Emails | Manage your Email Account | Privacy policy

To unsubscribe from ALL GSMA email communications, visit the Email Preference Centre

©2013 GSMA Limited
(GSMA Ltd. is a subsidiary company of GSM Association)
1000 Abernathy Road, Suite 450, Atlanta, GA 30328 USA
