Subject: 3 Apr 2013 | Verizon denies AT&T joint bid for Vodafone
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 04/03/2013 08:29 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

MWLTV_ad_PostMWC_550x90_V2
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
3 APRIL 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS
Verizon denies AT&T joint bid for Vodafone

Verizon Communications said that it is not considering a takeover of Vodafone with or without AT&T, reports Bloomberg.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacer 	

newtekelec

The ThinkingNetworks™ Revolution


Transform into a digital lifestyle provider with the 4 phases of ThinkingNetworks. Read Tekelec's whitepaper to learn more.

	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long
ee-swanteeEE boss opens up on 4G rollout

 


VIDEO INTERVIEW: The relatively low prices paid by UK operators in the recent 4G spectrum auction means services will be rolled out more quickly compared to 3G, according to Olaf Swantee, CEO of EE.

 btn-viewvideo-blue
	
	
LATEST

Joyn goes native in Spain
The big three mobile operators in Spain – Movistar, Orange and Vodafone – will launch joyn-embedded devices this month.



Latest Android platforms gain, but Gingerbread clings on
Google said that the latest versions of Android (Ice Cream Sandwich and Jelly Bean) accounted for almost 55 per cent of visits to its Google Play store in the two weeks to 2 April 2013, although the ageing Gingerbread platform is still the single biggest incarnation, generating just under 40 per cent.



WiMAX player halts 4G auction in Bahrain
TRA, Bahrain’s regulator, has stopped a multi-band spectrum auction after a successful appeal by Menatelecom, a local WiMAX operator.

BLOG

ken blog

Quad-play appetites growing in Europe
The quad-play market is hotting up in Europe, although it is far from a level playing field.

	

VIDEO

randall

MWC13 Keynote: AT&T
Randall Stephenson, AT&T’s chief executive, claimed the mobile industry was starting a new era. 

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

VIDEO

telstra-thodey-mwc13

Telstra CEO welcomes OTT-driven demand
David Thodey, CEO of Telstra, said the surging demand for mobile services should be welcomed and that it is down to operators to take advantage.

btn-viewvideo-blue 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
