Subject: 18 Mar 2013 | Parent companies split up ST-Ericsson
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/18/2013 08:56 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

MWLTV_ad_PostMWC_550x90_V2
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
18 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS

st-ericsson-logo
Parent companies split up ST-Ericsson

Ericsson and STMicroelectronics have decided to call time on ST-Ericsson, their loss-making wireless chip joint venture. As part of the closing down process, Ericsson and ST Microelectronics have each agreed to take some of ST-Ericsson’s assets in-house. But around 1,600 jobs could be cut.



divider-dotted-long

EC moves forward on single telecoms market plan

The European Commission is strengthening plans to look into the potential of a single telecoms market in Europe, reports Reuters. The move has been welcomed by the GSMA.

 

divider-dotted-long

Bharti Airtel hit by 3G service ban

The Indian government has banned Bharti Airtel from offering 3G services in seven circles and fined it INR3.5 billion ($64.6 million), reports the Economic Times. Meanwhile the operator is considering Chinese infrastructure vendor Huawei as the supplier for its 4G network deployments in Delhi and Mumbai.

	
	
FEATURE VIDEO

Launch of Samsung's Galaxy S4
gallaxys4

Mobile World Live was at the launch of the new Samsung Galaxy S 4 smartphone in New York. This video feature highlights the main tech improvements to the company’s new flagship device and includes footage of the event as well as analyst commentary.

btn-viewvideo-blue

Bouygues gets green light for 1800MHz 4G
Regulator Arcep gives LTE go-ahead.



AT&T open to selling non-core assets – report
US op aims to give itself more room for financial manoeuvre.

STC loses another senior exec
CEO resigns after less than nine months.

VIDEO

gestigon

Live demo: Gestigon
Sasha Twining is joined in the MWL TV studio in Barcelona by Gestigon CTO Sascha Klement. Klement demos the company’s futuristic gesture-controlled technology.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

MORE NEWS

firefox os

Telefonica: Firefox OS addressing Android pain points
Mozilla’s fledgling Firefox OS will provide a way for device makers to avoid some of the shortcomings of Android – including the legal issues – Yotam Ben-Ami, director of Open Web Devices at Telefonica, told Mobile World Live.

	

BLOG

ken blog

Time to talk up HD Voice
There are signs that high-definition voice, at long last, is gaining momentum. And Ken Wieland believes that the old chicken-and-egg stumbling block about which should come first – network or devices – looks to be coming down.

 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
