Subject: 21 Mar 2013 | Google to keep Android and Chrome separate, says Schmidt
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/21/2013 10:14 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

Sonus
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
21 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS

google-schmidt
Google to keep Android and Chrome separate, says Schmidt

 

Google chairman Eric Schmidt (pictured) said the Android and Chrome operating systems will remain separate products, despite speculation to the contrary. However, Reuters reports Schmidt did say there would be more “commonality” between the two operating systems. Schmidt also addressed his own future by countering talk he might be leaving the company.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacerdummies 	

Got SIP? Want SIP? Session Border Controllers secure, translate, police, and control your SIP communications. Learn more with a free copy of Session Border Controllers for Dummies. http://info.sonus.net/dummies-mwl
	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long
China Unicom boosted by 3G, low-cost smartphones

Chinese number-two operator China Unicom benefited from the growth of its 3G business and focus on low-cost smartphones during 2012 and the fourth quarter.

	
	
LATEST

weve1

Weve opens up on UK m-commerce rollout
Weve, the UK’s mobile operator-backed m-commerce venture, laid out its plans for 2013 in an interview with Mobile World Live. Marketing director Tony Moretta spelt out what Weve, which is backed by Vodafone, O2 and Everything Everywhere, aims to achieve this year.



Vivendi considers SFR spin-off – report
French company is looking at splitting off its SFR mobile unit as a means to focus on its media investments.

Orange reorganises senior management
Operator announces plans to reorganise its executive committee in an effort to improve efficiency and enable “a greater management focus on the group’s operational and strategic challenges”.

VIDEO

gallaxys4

Launch of Samsung's Galaxy S4
Mobile World Live was at the launch of the new Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphone in New York last week. This video feature highlights the main tech improvements to the company's new flagship device and includes footage of the event as well as analyst commentary.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

VIDEO

colao

MWC13 Keynote: Vodafone CEO
Vittorio Colao reveals Vodafone’s strategy to take on ‘free’ services from OTT players. He also touches on the issue of spectrum allocation, other regulatory concerns, and the operator’s approach to mobile money.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

BLOG

ken blog

Time to talk up HD Voice
There are signs that high-definition voice, at long last, is gaining momentum. And Ken Wieland believes that the old chicken-and-egg stumbling block about which should come first – network or devices – looks to be coming down.

 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
