Subject: 14 May 2013 | Nokia unveils latest Lumia flagship
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 05/14/2013 08:11 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

CTIA banner 1
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
14 MAY 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS
nokia-lumia-925Nokia unveils latest Lumia flagship








Nokia announced its latest flagship Lumia smartphone, Lumia 925, which offers a new-look design compared to its predecessor Lumia 920 – but which is otherwise remarkably similar.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacer 	

Cisco logo

Address the challenge of mobile service coverage and expand network capacity with the Cisco® Licensed Small Cell Solution. Extend voice and data services to mobile subscribers while offloading traffic. Download
	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long

Verizon Wireless pays surprise $7B dividend

Verizon Wireless has announced a surprise $7 billion dividend for its owners, Verizon Communications (55 per cent) and Vodafone (45 per cent), payable on 25 June 2013.

	
	
LATEST

France mulls smartphone tax to fund arts
A plan has been mooted in France which would see a new tax on smartphones, tablets and other internet-connected devices in order to raise money to fund French art, films and music.



AT&T drops “Facebook phone” — report
After disappointing sales, AT&T has decided to stop selling the HTC First – a smartphone with Facebook Home pre-installed – according to a “trusted source” speaking to BGR.



Ericsson, Huawei and NSN team up on OSS
In a bid to reduce OSS (operations support systems) integration costs – and shorten time-to-market for new service launches – Ericsson, Huawei and Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) have signed a memorandum of understanding to create the “OSS interoperability initiative” (OSSii).

BLOG

Google-wallet

Google Wallet’s high turnover
Google Wallet has been losing payments executives at a surprising rate, as the search giant struggles to make a success of its mobile wallet.

	

BLOG

us-flag1-620x367

Dish boss plays patriotic card for Sprint
A war of words has broken out between the CEOs of Dish and SoftBank, the suitors of US number three operator Sprint.

	

VIDEO

docomo-200x111

MWC13 Keynote: NTT Docomo
NTT Docomo is planning to shift its business model away from being platform-focused, towards a company providing mobile services.
btn-viewvideo-blue

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
