Subject: 26 Mar 2013 | Telefonica raises €975m to cut debt
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/26/2013 09:13 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

Sonus
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
26 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS
Telefonica raises €975m to cut debt

Telefonica announced today it had sold more than 90 million shares of treasury stock to professional investors, raising EUR975 million in the process, as it continues with its debt reduction plans.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacerdummies 	

Got SIP? Want SIP? Session Border Controllers secure, translate, police, and control your SIP communications. Learn more with a free copy of Session Border Controllers for Dummies. http://info.sonus.net/dummies-mwl

	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long
Saudi regulator threatens messaging apps

Saudi Arabia’s telecoms regulator has threatened to block messaging apps such as Skype, WhatsApp and Viber over security concerns, according to Al Arabiya.

	
	
LATEST

3 Group sees strong 2012, but Australia weighs on Hutchison
Hutchison Whampoa announced solid results from its various mobile businesses in 2012, although its troubled Australian joint venture remained the exception to the rule.



MVNOs coming soon to China
China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) said it will give the go-ahead to privately run MVNOs as early as May.



Oracle boosts OSS/BSS arsenal with Tekelec buy
Oracle has boosted its OSS/BSS portfolio with the purchase of Tekelec, a provider of network signalling, policy control and subscriber data management technology for communication networks.

VIDEO

Ubuntu ceo

MWC13 Keynote: Canonical CEO
Mark Shuttleworth, CEO of Canonical, the company behind the high-profile Ubuntu operating system, delivers his keynote presentation at the 2013 Mobile World Congress.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

VIDEO

colao

MWC13 Keynote: Vodafone CEO
Vittorio Colao reveals Vodafone’s strategy to take on ‘free’ services from OTT players. He also touches on the issue of spectrum allocation, other regulatory concerns, and the operator’s approach to mobile money.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

ANALYSIS

E3-iphone

China Mobile leading the way as emerging market operators embrace Wi-Fi
Operators in both mature and developing markets are now looking to Wi-Fi as a tool for data offloading and service differentiation, says Matt Ablott of Wireless Intelligence.

 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
