Subject: 4 Mar 2013 | Samsung's damages payment to Apple slashed
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/04/2013 09:00 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

Click here to view in browser
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
4 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS
Samsung's damages payment to Apple slashed

The $1.05 billion in damages Samsung was ordered to pay Apple for infringing design patents has been reduced by 40 per cent by the judge that oversaw the original verdict – although this is not the end of the matter.



divider-dotted-long 

spacer 	
	spacer 	

rcscloudconnect_final

Add WiFi Calling to Your Product List

Deliver a VoIP experience for mobile customers with NewPace’s rcsConnect and rcsCloudConnect. Deploy RCS and win customers over. www.newpace.com/rcs
	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long
Optimus G
LG hits 10M LTE smartphone sales

LG Electronics said it had sold more than 10 million LTE smartphones worldwide, which it attributed to its “aggressive push into 4G markets with a combination of the best hardware and advanced 4G LTE technologies”.

	
	
VIDEO

CroppedExterior

MWC 13 Show wrapup
Watch our highlights video of Mobile World Congress 2013, an event that broke attendance records.

btn-viewvideo-blue

Report: Russian 4G permits in doubt
Several Russian mobile operators could lose the right to use some 4G spectrum following a decision by an appeals court to restore a regional TV company’s rights, reports Reuters.



Telkom to launch new mobile brand
South Africa’s Telkom plans to introduce a new brand, Telkom Mobile, that will largely replace the existing 8ta name it uses for its mobile unit.

Telefonica selling UK fixed arm
Telefonica is selling-off its UK fixed line business, which operates using the O2 and BE brands.

VIDEO

Panel

MWL TV Keynote: Smartphone OS newcomers take centre stage
Executives from Mozilla, Ubuntu and Jolla took to the stage at Mobile World Congress 2013 to discuss the potential for innovation in the mobile platform market.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

VIDEO

apps-video-2

What’s in store for the 2013 apps market?
Mobile World Live asks a team of industry experts what lies in store for the apps market this year.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

ANALYSIS

eu-flag_3031

European LTE rollouts hampered by lack of digital dividend spectrum
Delays in the allocation of 800MHz spectrum is a major issue for LTE operators in Europe, says Joss Gillet of Wireless Intelligence.

btn-readmore-blue.jpg

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
