Subject: MWC 2013: New Conference Keynotes Announced!
From: "John Hoffman, GSMA Mobile World Congress" <emailreplies@gsma.com>
Date: 01/24/2013 09:16 AM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

View on Mobile Phone | View as Web Page

 Updates2Header
	

para1

We are excited to announce new keynotes have been added to the MWC Conference:

    Xi Guohua, Chairman, China Mobile
    Dennis Crowley, Founder and CEO, Foursquare
    Marc Dillon, CEO, Jolla Mobile
    César Alierta, Executive Chairman and CEO, Telefónica
    Paul Gunning, CEO, Tribal DDB Worldwide and Global Chief Digital Officer, DDB

Xi Guohua1Dennis CrowleyCesar Alierta

Click the banner to the right to view the presentation from keynote Dennis Crowley, CEO of Foursquare

You can learn more about MWC by viewing the list of Keynote Speakers, the full conference agenda, the event website or the interactive ebrochure.

para2MWC13
securitytipsphotoAs always, the massive mobile technology exhibition is the heart of MWC. And this year will be no different with over 1,500 exhibitors including big names like eBay, Ford, HTC, Mastercard, Nokia, Samsung, Sony Mobile and Visa. See the complete exhibitor list now. The exhibition will also feature several specialised pavilions (including Embedded Mobile Device, Green Technology, Mobile Cloud, Mobile Health and others), the new Operator Village, and the mPowered Brands and App Planet exhibition zones.

para3MWC
nfcAs a part of the new NFC Experience, you can use your NFC-enabled phone (Android 4.0 or Windows Phone 8*) to gain access to the event. The NFC Badge will enable you to enjoy access to MWC without having to repeatedly show photo-ID every time you enter (you will only need to show photo-ID once to validate your NFC Badge and photo). To find out more, make sure to opt in to the NFC Experience when you register for MWC. Also included in the NFC Experience will be the NFC Centre in Congress Square, a dozen NFC Interactive Zones around the venue and NFC touch points around Barcelona.
 
*Available to download in early February

connectedcitypara
connectedcityphotoAlso see a connected apartment, car showroom, office, town hall, department store, mobile shop and electrical store in this MWC feature that expands on last years popular Connected House. Visit the Connected City to find out how homes become smart, city and transport networks will be optimised, healthcare reach extended and the growing needs of consumers and businesses will be met with mobile solutions. Visit the Connected City in Stands 3B2 and 3C2, Hall 3.

para5MWC13
appwomanphotoNew for 2013, the App Planet Open Forum, presented by APPNATION, will feature a thought-leadership conference with content delivered by players from major mobile operating system platforms and app delivery services. Moderator Drew Ianni, CEO, APPNATION, will explore the theme “The State of the Global App Economy” through an executive roundtable. This will be followed by presentations from Amazon, Google, Twitter and more. Also featured in App Planet are App Developer Conferences by Car Connectivity Consortium, Nokia, OneAPI, Plantronics, Samsung and WIP Jam. Learn more or apply to attend one of these sessions now.

para6MWC
partnereventphotoPartners of the GSMA use MWC to gather the mobile eco-system to discuss new programme initiatives, emerging market trends, product development, or important announcements. Attending a partner event is an excellent way to network with industry peers, develop new relationships, and collaborate on common goals. This year we are featuring events hosted by ClickSoftware, Fastback Networks, GTI, IBM, MasterCard, Open Mobile Alliance and Taisys. Learn more now or indicate your interest in attending.

para7
forumseriesphotoThe Forum Series consist of programmes and presentations giving a deep dive on a specific industry topic or initiative. Multiple forum partners present a single session as part of the day-long Forum. This year we offer the LTE Forum, the Mobile Security Forum and the MNO Developer Cloud Forum. Learn more or indicate your interest in attending one of these sessions now.

travel para bar MWC13
travelphotoNeed to maximise the ROI of attending MWC by reducing your travel costs? Then use our recommended suppliers who are offering discounted rates and great service to our attendees. BBP offers a wide range of hotel rooms that feature value, great amenities and easy access to the venue. In addition, BBP is also offering a full schedule of tours around Barcelona. For flights, check out the Star Alliance Network, who is offering up to 20% off international flights. Finally, if you need a rent a venue during the event, contact Eventive, who has facilities in a wide range of sizes and prices.
	

  Register Now Button

  websitebutton
  eBrochureButton
  DennisCrowly Foursquare Keynote
  
   MWC APP2  
         banner 150x180 2
   newvenue
    trainingbanner
    mobilegeniusquizphoto
    MAE banner20131
 mwl banner 2
	

SponsorsFooter

Mobile World Congress 2013 | The New Mobile Horizon
25 – 28 February 2013 | Fira Gran Via, Barcelona, Spain | www.mobileworldcongress.com

Mobile Asia Expo 2013 | 26-28 June 2013 | New International Expo Centre, Shanghai, China | www.mobileasiaexpo.com

Unsubscribe from GSMA Events & Announcements Emails | Manage your Email Account | Privacy policy

To unsubscribe from ALL GSMA email communications, visit the Email Preference Centre

©2013 GSMA Limited
(GSMA Ltd. is a subsidiary company of GSM Association)
1000 Abernathy Road, Suite 450, Atlanta, GA 30328 USA
