Subject: 25 Mar 2013 | Apple under European antitrust scrutiny – report
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/25/2013 08:40 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

Sonus
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
25 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS
Apple under European antitrust scrutiny – report

The European Commission is reportedly looking into antitrust violations by Apple related to the distribution of iPhones and iPads, following informal complaints from mobile operators.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacerdummies 	

Got SIP? Want SIP? Session Border Controllers secure, translate, police, and control your SIP communications. Learn more with a free copy of Session Border Controllers for Dummies. http://info.sonus.net/dummies-mwl

	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long
HTC One_3V_BlackHTC confirms One rollout plan

 

 

HTC announced rollout details of its delayed One smartphone, claiming it has seen “unprecedented demand for and interest in" the device.

	
	
LATEST

Vodafone’s 2G extension plans blocked in India
India’s Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has rejected Vodafone’s request to renew its 2G licences in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata.



GSMA calls for Indian spectrum reserve cuts
GSMA director general Anne Bouverot called for the Indian government to ”focus on the longer term” in setting reserve prices for spectrum, rather than seeing it as “a means to raise short-term revenues”.



Report: Canada’s Wind Mobile up for sale
VimpelCom has reportedly set the wheels in motion to sell off its Wind Mobile subsidiary, a Canadian wireless start-up.

VIDEO

viber

MWC13 Keynote: Viber CEO
Viber's Talmon Marco used his keynote address at this year’s GSMA Mobile World Congress to claim that consumers want innovation over interoperability. The founder of the OTT messaging player said the company has quickly gained 170 million users to its free IP instant messaging service.

	

VIDEO

colao

MWC13 Keynote: Vodafone CEO
Vittorio Colao reveals Vodafone’s strategy to take on ‘free’ services from OTT players. He also touches on the issue of spectrum allocation, other regulatory concerns, and the operator’s approach to mobile money.


	

ANALYSIS

E3-iphone

China Mobile leading the way as emerging market operators embrace Wi-Fi
Operators in both mature and developing markets are now looking to Wi-Fi as a tool for data offloading and service differentiation, says Matt Ablott of Wireless Intelligence.

 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
