Subject: 22 Mar 2013 | FCC chairman to step down – report
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/22/2013 09:01 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

Sonus
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
22 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS

julius
FCC chairman to step down – report

Industry reports suggest Federal Communications Commission (FCC) chairman Julius Genachowski will officially announce his decision to step down today. The Wall Street Journal cites two unnamed sources for the story, one an FCC official. The news, which has been rumoured for some time, comes days after Robert McDowell, a senior Republican commissioner on the FCC’s five-member panel, announced his decision to leave the US regulator.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacerdummies 	

Got SIP? Want SIP? Session Border Controllers secure, translate, police, and control your SIP communications. Learn more with a free copy of Session Border Controllers for Dummies. http://info.sonus.net/dummies-mwl
	spacer
spacer

US megadeals make positive progress

The proposed deals to bring together Sprint, Clearwire and Japanese giant Softbank and for T-Mobile USA to merge with MetroPCS are both making headway.

	
	
LATEST NEWS

Siemens CFO indicates NSN exit likely in 2013
Siemens is likely to exit the Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) joint venture this year, a senior executive from the German company has said.



Mexico telecoms reform closer, America Movil upbeat
Far-reaching reform of Mexico’s telecoms markets has moved a step closer following approval by the country’s lower house of Congress to a bill put forward by President Enrique Pena Nieto.

Renesas strengthens mobile chip sale speculation
Japanese chipset manufacturer Renesas looks increasingly likely to sell its loss-making mobile phone chip business, acquired from Nokia in 2010 for $200 million.

VIDEO

 gallaxys4

Launch of Samsung's Galaxy S4
Mobile World Live was at the launch of the new Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphone in New York last week. This video feature highlights the main tech improvements to the company's new flagship device and includes footage of the event as well as analyst commentary.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

VIDEO

colao

MWC13 Keynote: Vodafone CEO
Vittorio Colao reveals Vodafone’s strategy to take on ‘free’ services from OTT players. He also touches on the issue of spectrum allocation, other regulatory concerns, and the operator’s approach to mobile money.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

ANALYSIS

E3-iphone

China Mobile leading the way as emerging market operators embrace Wi-Fi
Operators in both mature and developing markets are now looking to Wi-Fi as a tool for data offloading and service differentiation, says Matt Ablott of Wireless Intelligence.

 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
