Subject: 10 May 2013 | Global LTE connections hit 100 million
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 05/10/2013 08:12 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

CTIA banner 1
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
10 MAY 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS
Global LTE connections hit 100 million

The 4G LTE industry has hit 100 million global connections, according to Wireless Intelligence. The research firm said that there are 163 LTE networks in operation across 70 countries, with this forecast to rise to over 400 live networks across 120 countries by December 2017.



divider-dotted-long

spacer 	
	spacer 	

F5Get context-aware intelligence for better monetization, optimization and security strategies.
Meet the Diameter signaling and mobile data experts at the LTE LATAM event in Rio on April 16. Contact us

	spacer
spacer

divider-dotted-long
aio logoAT&T enters no-contract contest with T-Mobile

 

 

AT&T launched Aio Wireless, a new data-centric, pre-paid brand aimed at the no-contract market recently marked out by T-Mobile USA.

	
	
LATEST

Q1 smart devices top 300M, tablets growing fastest
Global shipments of ‘smart devices’, comprising notebooks, tablets and smartphones, hit 309 million units in Q1 2013, with tablets the fastest-growing segment, according to research firm Canalys.



Vodafone takes court action over India licence renewals
Vodafone India filed a petition in the Delhi High Court that challenges the Department of Telecommunications’ decision to reject its application for 2G licence extensions in the Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata ‘circles’ (regions).



Colombia gets six offers in 4G auction
The Colombian government has received offers from six bidders interested in an auction of 4G radio frequencies, which will raise a minimum of $250 million in total from the winners.

BLOG

ken blog

Dish boss plays patriotic card for Sprint
A war of words has broken out between the CEOs of Dish and SoftBank, the suitors of US number three operator Sprint.

	

ANALYSIS

china_flag2

Chinese operators reap the rewards of rising smartphone penetration
Wireless Intelligence reports on how China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom are benefiting greatly from the country’s smartphone revolution, as rising penetration accelerates uptake of 3G services.

	

VIDEO

juniper-200x111

MWC13 Keynote: Juniper Networks
Kevin Johnson, CEO of Juniper Networks, keynotes at the 2013 GSMA Mobile World Congress on the subject of ‘Operating in the Cloud.’
btn-viewvideo-blue

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Manage your account | Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
