Subject: 11 Mar 2013 | Czech regulator halts spectrum auction as bids too high
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/11/2013 09:25 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

Exfo
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
11 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS
ctu_logoCzech regulator halts spectrum auction as bids too high


In an unusual move, CTU, the Czech telecoms regulator, suspended the country’s spectrum auction because bids were escalating too far beyond the reserve price.

divider-dotted-long

HTC-OneNokia’s HTC patent complaint dismissed by German court


HTC has been cleared of infringing two patents held by Nokia by a German court, stating that it believes the recovering Finnish smartphone maker “exaggerated the scope of its patent in order to extract unwarranted licensing royalties from Android handset manufacturers”.



	
	
LATEST

AT&T mulls Indian mobile venture
AT&T is thinking about buying a 25 per cent stake in Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd (RJIL), in a deal that could be worth as much as $3.5 billion.



ST-Ericsson parts company with CEO
Troubled semiconductor company announced the departure of Didier Lamouche, who has “decided to resign from the company to pursue other opportunities”.



Sistema wins Indian CDMA spectrum
The Indian mobile unit of Russian operator group Sistema has secured CDMA spectrum in eight circles in India after being the sole bidder.

VIDEO

yota

Interview: Yota Devices, CEO – Vlad Martynov
MWL TV interviews the CEO of upcoming Russian manufacturer Yota Devices. The company has already made headlines by unveiling its innovative YotaPhone.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

ANALYSIS

mwc13 towers

Mobile World Congress 2013: Analysis Report
The Mobile World Live and Wireless Intelligence teams were in Barcelona to report on all the key developments that will shape the global mobile industry in the year ahead. Read the free report.

	

VIDEO

WP

Interview: Windows Phone's Terry Myerson
MWL TV talks to Terry Myerson, head of Windows Phone, to get an update on commercial progress so far for the new operating system. 

btn-viewvideo-blue 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
