Subject: 19 Mar 2013 | Video interview - BlackBerry CMO: "We want to be a strong number three"
From: "Mobile World Live - Daily" <mwl@mobileworldlive.com>
Date: 03/19/2013 09:43 PM
To: xyuan@mozilla.com

If you are having trouble reading this email, read the online version.
Please do not reply to this email  

MWLTV_ad_PostMWC_550x90_V2
DAILY EDITION

Mobile World Live Daily Edition 	
19 MARCH 2013
  	 
Share: 	

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us 

TOP NEWS

bb frank
BlackBerry CMO: "We want to be a strong number three"

Frank Boulben, chief marketing officer at challenged device vendor BlackBerry, has told Mobile World Live that the recent release of its BB10 operating system is aimed at establishing a “strong number three” spot in the smartphone platform market as it attempts to become a credible competitor to iOS and Android. Boulben also reveals the decision behind sticking with its own OS and outlines future device launch plans.


 btn-viewvideo-blue

divider-dotted-long

Exclusive: Barclays may launch mobile service

UK retail bank Barclays is considering launching a mobile phone service, according to a customer survey seen by Mobile World Live.

divider-dotted-long

ARM's CEO to step down

After 12 years at the helm of ARM, the UK-headquartered chip designer, Warren East is to step down and retire.

	
	
FEATURE VIDEO

Launch of Samsung's Galaxy S4
gallaxys4

Mobile World Live was at the launch of the new Samsung Galaxy S 4 smartphone in New York. This video feature highlights the main tech improvements to the company’s new flagship device and includes footage of the event as well as analyst commentary.

btn-viewvideo-blue

NSN bullish in a "flat" mobile broadband market
Network vendor sees operators continue to rein in capital spending against an uncertain economic backdrop.



Iliad sees net profit fall in 2012
New French operator claims 8 per cent market share.

VIDEO

gestigon

Live demo: Gestigon
Sasha Twining is joined in the MWL TV studio in Barcelona by Gestigon CTO Sascha Klement. Klement demos the company’s futuristic gesture-controlled technology.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

VIDEO

colao

MWC13 Keynote: Vodafone CEO
Vittorio Colao reveals Vodafone’s strategy to take on ‘free’ services from OTT players. He also touches on the issue of spectrum allocation, other regulatory concerns, and the operator’s approach to mobile money.

btn-viewvideo-blue
	

BLOG

ken blog

Time to talk up HD Voice
There are signs that high-definition voice, at long last, is gaining momentum. And Ken Wieland believes that the old chicken-and-egg stumbling block about which should come first – network or devices – looks to be coming down.

 

Follow Us on Twitter Find Us on Facebook Find Us on YouTube Find Us on LinkedIn Email Us
Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy I About us
© 2013 GSM Association | 7th Floor, 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3BF | United Kingdom
